Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
From hand full minutes.com
it's Hansel minutes or weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number four
79. In this episode, Scott
talks with John old bacon
about building community around the
X prize. . Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And today we're talking with
John O bacon who used
to work as a community
manager for Boone too. And
you've got a new gig
now I do in date.
Yep. I moved over to
a place called the X
prize foundation, which is based
out of LA the X,
when I think X prize.
I think there's a prize
for helping people either, you
know, get to space or
fly a solar powered something
around the world. I mean,
it's really hard technical problems
and no, I feel like
no one ever got around
to solving them. So let's
put a prize for $10 million
and see if anyone will
do it. Right. Right, right.
It's it's, it's interesting. You
know, when I, when I
left canonical that night, I
was in a position. This
is probably gonna sound a
little egotistical. It's not meant
to, but I was in
a relatively public position, economical
in representing the community. And
when I went to X
prize, a bunch of people
said, you know, what's that?
And, and I talk about
the very first X prize,
which was the Ansari X
prize, which was the space
one. And everybody remembers it
is that, that big space
competition from years ago. And
it started out that way.
As you know, Peter diamond
is the founder of X
prize, basically organize that as
the first X prize competition.
And it was never really
intended to go beyond that,
but it was so successful
that he thought maybe we
can do this in other
areas as well. And how
does someone, I mean, do
you have, did, was he
like a bajillionaire and he
just sat around like, you
know, no, one's doing this
thing. No, one's getting us
to the moon again, let's
put a prize for $10 million
to make that happen. Like,
how does that conversation start?
I mean, he was basically,
and I'm I'm, I wasn't
there, so it's kind of
dark. And then this guy
kind of hanging out, trying
to solve problems. Well, he,
you know, he was a
space dog and he, you
know, he's, he's incredibly accomplished
academically studied at MIT and
he'd read a book about
the spirit of st. Louis
and thought that that was
an incentive competition that resulted
in commercial flight and he
thought we could do the
same thing for space. And
the thing about Peter is
that he is one of
the most affable human beings.
I think I've ever met.
Like he, he's got a
great way of connecting with
people and he basically pulled
together a stage in the
Mojave desert and announced this
competition and had the ability
to, to reach out, to,
to media and all the
rest of it to get
the level of awareness that
it, that it struck. And
he's basically continued that forward.
I mean, you know, he
he's, he's essentially an entrepreneur
he's, he's, he's, you know,
the founder of X prize,
but he also founded a
bunch of other companies like
human longevity and, and, and
planetary resources, which is mining
asteroids. So he's kind of
crazy in all the right
ways, I think is the
best way of describing it.
Where does this, where do
these, the, the, the, the,
what is the pot come
from? Where does the money
come from? When, when, when
a prizes is There's two
components, really, I mean, you've
got the price purse, which
everyone hears about. So, you
know, the, the $15 million global
learning X prize, but then
there's the money that goes
into the development of the
prize itself. One of the
things that I didn't realize
until I joined X prize
was just how much work
goes into one of these
X prizes, because they are,
you know, Google talks a
lot about moonshots and they
are by definition, moonshot competitions,
they're designed to solve market
failures where the market is
not providing a solution for
a major issue in the
world. And so the, the
money for, you know, for
the prize itself for the,
for the development, the price
comes from lots of different
sources, it's foundations and wealthy
benefactors and people like that.
And then the actual price
purse is usually from either
individuals or companies. So for
example, Elon Musk put up
a big chunk of money
for the, for the global
learning X prize competition, as
well as a bunch of
other sponsors as well. It's
almost a branding exercise in
the sense of there were
ways to get money and
to motivate people with grants
and things like that. And
also just general academic accomplishment.
But if you get organized
and put a lot of
thought and branding and excitement
behind it, somehow people get
off their butts. Yeah. I
mean, it, it really, it's,
it's, it's a really interesting
model because, you know, I
came from the, from the,
from the opensource where I've
spent my career working in
open source, which is inherently
collaborative. So going to a
world that is more competitive
was, was interesting. And one
of the things that's interesting
about the incentive model is
that, is that you have
to have a price purse
that's sufficiently large enough that
it justifies R and D
in that area. So for
example, with the global learning
X prize, there's 250 million kids
in the world who can't
read, and that has a
tremendous economic impact on those
countries. It has a huge
impact on those kids and
families. And it's a market
failure. That company has not
solved that problem, but that's
a really ambitious piece of
software to build. It could
incorporate machine learning and artificial
intelligence and all different pieces.
So you have to have
a price plus it's big
enough that can result in
that level of R and
D to initiate. So it's
not just that people are
wooed by the, the prize
purse it's that it essentially
justifies the formation of R
and D and new markets,
which I never really particularly
realized until I, until I
joined exerprise X prize. And
in many cases, people actually
invest more money than the
prize purse in winning the
competition with the first X
prize. I think if I
remember correctly, I think like
$50 million was invested by one
of the teams in a
$10 million competition. So there's an,
it's an interesting model Learning
one that was launched in
September of 2014, that's the
$15 million prize. Do you create
free apps to do reading,
writing, arithmetic? The result of
that though is for this
was for open source teams.
Like it's not always for
a company there's, there's a,
the resulting software could be
open source. Yeah. So this
was the first, this was
the first open source X
prize, which was, you know,
fortuitous for me coming into
X prize era just before
that prize launched. And the
idea there is that teams
can build their technology privately
if they want, but then
the prize that they're the
winning five team or the
top five finalists have to
open source that technology. And
one of the things I
liked about that was that
it means that it's not
just that your you're creating
a solution for this issue
of illiteracy around the world,
but that because it's open
source at the end of
it, that's that builds technology
that essentially becomes a foundational
code base in society. It
can be fought. People can
utilize it in different ways.
And it also opens up
interesting ideas around where the
teams can collaborate over common
pieces, which is some of
the, one of the things
that I've been experimenting and
which, you know, I'm not
aware of people doing beforehand.
So it's, it's been very
experimental at a technology layer
for the expert When somebody
jumps into it, are they
already in the space? Like
I'm looking at the global
learning one and I'm thinking,
Oh, well, the Khan Academy
should get involved in that.
And that would be a
great way for them to,
you know, they're already doing
open source, they're already doing
education. They're already got great
design. Like that's a slam
dunk for them. It's, It's
a real mix. I mean,
there are, you know, there
are teams, I think of
something like 198 teams, something
like that, registered for the
global learning X prize. And
it's a mixture of academics
companies, individuals, it's a really
broad mix of, of, of
people who, who are taking
part. And that's one of
the things I quite like
about it is that there's,
you know, there was a
there's I think it was
the Qualcomm tricorder X prize,
which is to build a
device that can diagnose a
range of issues better than
a board of certified physicians.
One of the participants in
that I believe was Jack
and Draker who was this
kid who developed a, a
test for pancreatic cancer when
was like 15. And it's
one of those things where
I think it unlocks smart
people in doing interesting things.
And it's again, similar principle
to open sources that anybody's
got the opportunity to rise
to success. Do these prizes
just hang out there until
they are solved? Are they
like those difficult math problems
that we hear about a
century later? And they say,
yeah, someone was working in
their basement and salty scan
practice, like, is the tricorder
expertise, did that get solved?
It's a, there's a timeline.
These prizes are usually three
to five years. They're quite
long because they're pretty ambitious.
I mean, an X prize
has to be an ambitious
price. It can't be something
that could be one in
a couple of months, but
there is a defined timeline
and there is a defined
criteria around winning the prize.
So if you don't achieve
it, you don't win the
prize. And, you know, it's
usually broken into different phases.
So there's a development phase.
There's a field testing phase.
There's a, the, there's an,
a phase where, where, you
know, you narrow down to
a set of finalists. So
yeah, it varies obviously between
the different prizes, but yeah,
there's a timeline for it.
Okay. Right. Cause the Qualcomm
tricorder one and tri-quarter of
course, was the medical device
that they use on star
Trek. So that's just kind
of a generic word. Now.
It was, I think it
was, was it a $10 million
prize? And it's broken up
into a kind of grand
prize, second prize, third prize.
And, and then there's a
timeline of course, that people
can continue onto the next
step. Right. Thanks. Exactly. And
I believe that we've got
the finalists for the Qualcomm,
for the F for the
Qualcomm tricorder X price. We're
getting into the final stages
of that, of that competition
right now. And it's, it's
really interesting seeing what they
can, What is the relationship
between the prize and then
the company whose name goes
in front? Like there's the
Nokia sensing challenge, which is
a sensor problem. There's the,
you know, the Google lunar
one, is that just the
primary backer of that price?
Yeah. So that's the, you
know, that's the, that the
primary sponsor of the, of
the price purse. And then,
like I said earlier on,
within each prize, you'll have
a series of other sponsors
that invariably do the price
development work, but also that,
you know, the relationship will
vary in different ways with
the different sponsors. So sponsors
may be able to have
give you access to technology
or access to, you know,
smart people or in testing
infrastructure and things like that.
So at its most basic
level, it's they provide the
money, but then there's some
times additional benefits on top
of that as well. Now,
one of them that was
the second prize, the, the
art, our con genomics prize
ended up getting canceled. Was
that just because technology went
so fast that they, they,
it became a solved problem
before the prize ended. Yeah.
Precisely. That is that essentially
the talented, you just caught
up quicker than the price,
which I think, again, you
know, I wasn't there at
that point in the X
prize history, but from talking
to my colleagues, that was
a necessary thing to happen
is that, is that you
want an X prize to
be so ambitious that it's,
that, that, that can't happen.
That technology cannot catch up
quicker, but also you don't
want it to be too
ambitious where it can't be
done. So for example, the
Google lunar X prize, which
is to build a, a
Rover that will, will, will,
that will run on the
moon and send back HD
video back to earth. That's
a remarkably ambitious X prize.
And that's taken has been
extended a few times because
it's so ambitious. So I
think that's right in pretty
close to, to what can
and can't be done. So,
so X prize has to
get a pretty delicate balance
and making sure that it's,
you know, it's crazy, but
not, not too crazy. The
thing is though, it's funny.
I just, maybe this is
just a linguistics thing, but
the idea that you can
say something in a sentence
and go, yeah, I can
see that happening, but like,
you know, the, the, the
lunar one, for example, right.
Just I'm reading here, the
prize awards, $20 million for the
first team to land a
Rover on the move on
the moon and then successfully
move at 500 meters and
transmit back high definition. Right.
So I'm thinking, okay, high
definition, cool. Yeah. Move at
500 meters. You got that,
you know, it's just the
little detail of getting it
to the moon. Right. But
other than that small detail,
this is off the shelf
parts. Right. My kid could
do this in a week.
Easy, easy. Yeah. It's there,
what's been interesting about the
Google lunar one is that
there is a, there's at
least in the United States, there
is fairly significant regulation around
building space technology. And I
believe it's called ITA, which
basically says that if you
build a spacecraft, that's bigger
than a certain size, it's
considered a weapon. Oh, I
guess because it could go
really fast and crash into
stuff. Right. So it's, it's
one of those things whereby
it, I'm presuming that it
limits what teams can and
can't do fairly significantly. And
obviously you then need to
deal with launch partners and
all kinds of stuff. So
it's not like that competition
exists in a vacuum as
the, you know, the space
X and other organizations are
building technology to launch to
the moon cheaper and more
efficiently. So while this prize
has been development, other pieces
that are variables that are
working alongside it as well.
Right. And that the, the
lunar one, you know, easy
to say, but hard to
do that was delayed from
the end of this year
to the end of next
year. Right. Right. Exactly. Pretty
soon someone needs to say
that they're going to schedule
a launch. Otherwise you're going
to have to, Yeah. I
believe that we're in the
final stages of getting to
that now into it, to
the launch. So yeah, it's
been a, it's been a
tough one to run, but
I think it's starting to
reap some rewards. It seems
like Something that a Elon
Musk would be doing to
get a little on the
moon. It doesn't have to
be giant. Like, why not?
Why couldn't it be, you
know, the size of a
laptop. Right. And I believe
that the actual, the rovers
are pretty small and it's,
it's, you know, they've, they've
been testing in, in Moonlight
conditions on earth as well.
I mean, I believe there's
been some testing out in
Hawaii and places like that.
So, you know, it's obviously
it's not, it's not space
is not something you can
iterate on very quickly, you
know, in software you can
use automated tests and you
can, you can, you can
iterate really fast to, to
improve things, but you get
basically one shot at it
with space. I want to
take a brief moment to
thank my sponsors sync fusion
this week, the first and
only complete Hadoop distribution designed
for windows is now available
from sync fusion. You can
literally deploy a production ready,
big data cluster in minutes.
This revolutionary big data platform
will not only change the
way that you approach big
data, but it is 100%
free for everyone with free
commercial support for sync fusion,
plus members learn more at
sync, fusion.com/big data. These things
being rebooted remotely, like bill
Nye, his team has got
a sensor system out there
that just got rebooted remotely.
And I'm just thinking about
how unreliable my PC is
the fact that they were
able to take, you know,
take a light, sail and
reboot the thing. Yeah. Yeah.
It's pretty scary stuff. Yeah.
Yeah. It wastes interesting. I
was reading about, you know,
I think it was, I
think it was a trip
to MAs. I think it
was the, you know, is
that the technology that they
set up there was of
course developed years ago. So
you've got material constraints, you've
got processing constraints. And then
of course you just got
that massive distance in terms
of radio transmission. So this
is one of the reasons
why I could never be
a space person. Cause it's
too complicated. Yeah. Have you
read the, have you read
the Martian? No, I'm recommending
this to everyone. I recommend
it to everyone who's listening
and I recommend it to
you. It is a, what
they call a hard science
fiction where it's, you know,
it's a science fiction book
about a fellow who's on
Mars with his team and
something happens and he gets
left behind. So then he
has to figure out how
to survive for 18 months.
And it's written by a
huge nerd who wants to
make sure all the science
works. So it's hard science
fiction indicating that it's not
just made up like totally
wacky lasers and forced fields.
Everything that he tries has
to be something that is
scientifically feasible and dumb and
interesting. And it's going to
be a movie with Matt
Damon at the really seriously
it'll change your life. This
book is amazing. The audio
book is brilliant, but I
will. I've even told people
that if they buy it
and they hate it, that
I'll pay for it. That's
how good it is. That
is a pretty strong, pretty
strong advocacy of this book.
I don't know if you've
ever seen like a show
or a movie so good
that you just want to
find a friend and then
watch them watch the movie
so that you can have
the experience of watching them
watch the movie. I would
like to sit over your
shoulder and watch you read
the Martian so I could
see your face at different
points and go, I know
That's both endearing and creepy
at the same time. So
shifting gears the first time
that I think I ended
up talking to you was
around 2009. When your book,
the art of community came
out, and this is kind
of the canonical book on
creating communities, both offline and
online and, you know, leadership
in that context. So, and
then you did that, you
know, working with the Ubuntu
project and building community there,
how does that relate to
working on next prize? Is
there, is there a community
now? I think of X
prize as being a bunch
of rich people and scientists.
How does that affect me?
It's a great question. One
of the, so, you know,
I was at canonical for,
for eight years and I'd
written the book and I,
I, I, I'd been basically
born in the brain of
open source community and I
felt like a while. Never,
no one's ever an expert.
I felt like I knew
it pretty well. I knew
I wanted to do something
completely different to, to get
me out of my comfort
zone, but I wanted it
to have a more meaningful
impact. I didn't want to
just go to a company
that makes more widgets. And
I got introduced to Peter
diamond as the founder of
X prize. And I basically
said to him, you know,
I think X prize is
neat, but only so many
people are going to be
able to take part in
these competitions. You know, the
three or five years, they
the require significant R and
D and investment and whatever
else I'm like, who's going
to, not, everybody can quit
their job to work on
an X prize. And I
said, in my mind, it,
what you need is a
global community that has the
shared mission and ethos of
making the world a better
place and applying best skills
and that perspectives to solving
smaller problems all over the
place. And he basically said,
that sounds like a great
idea, come and build it.
So I joined X prize,
frankly, really not knowing what
kind of community was going
to look like. And the
last year has been a
really interesting learning experience in,
in identifying what elements of
the community collaborative model work
and apply in different areas.
So my goal at X
prize has been to build
a community of people who
are a passionate about the
work that X prize does.
That's what I would call
a read communities, people who
won't collaborate or build anything,
but they're their fans and
they want to engage in
discussion. But then I also
wanted to build a collaborative
community. That's working together on
practical problems outside of X
prizes that can, that can
make the world a better
place that can solve our
grand challenges and kind of
conducting that work. I've learned
more about community management in
the last year than I'd
done in my entire career.
It's been, it's been, it's
been, it's been fascinating because
one of the things I've
learned is that is that
innovation. And so innovation comes
in different forms and in
the open source world and
in the technology world, innovation
starts with a hack. It
starts with someone building something
like you, you make something,
you shove it up and
get hub. Somebody also finds
it interesting. And so long
as you've got the tools
and the knowledge to contribute,
then that hat can evolve
and it can be buffed
and something that's more refined.
And then you have a
release and then it becomes
a project. And that happens
in companies that happens in
open source communities and elsewhere
is that it starts and
ends with material that you
that's, what you collaborate around.
What's interesting about X prize
is that innovation is a
statement. It's, you know, we
want people to solve this
problem. It's, it's a moonshot
thing. So it's innovation in
a way, but it's problem
solving in another way. And
a lot of the people
who joined the X prize
community are not the kind
of people that are in
the opensource community that are
in the technology world. They
are entrepreneurs or they're scientists.
So connecting those people to
a community when they're not
necessarily starting out with a
hack, has been, the challenge
is, you know, how do
I bring a, a neuroscientist
into the X prize community
to play an impact in
what we're doing? I'll play
a role in what we're
doing in a way that
we do the same kind
of thing with a software
engineer, with a software engineer,
the material code, what's the,
what's the equivalent code for
a neuroscientist. And there's, so
there's been all kinds of
like interesting learnings. I it's
been exacerbating at times because
I've realized that long-held perspectives
that I've had have been
frankly untrue. And then it's
also opened up all kinds
of new ideas and thinking
about what a community should
look like. So it's, it's,
it's, there's going to be
a book that sometimes it's
just going to ask you,
it sounds like you have
another book in you. Yeah,
I definitely. And I, and
it's one of the, I
think one of the key
lessons that I've learned is
that I used to be
broadly of the viewpoint that
so long as you can
get people United around the
mission, any community can be
built anywhere. So if you
can get people excited about,
about a book club or
about a band or about,
you know, making the software
or whatever it might be
that a community is possible
anywhere. And I think that
read communities are possible anywhere
communities where people are sharing
an experience and sharing a
perspective and sharing consumption is
possible anywhere book collaborative, right.
Communities, I don't think are
as, as, as, as tractable
in as many places is
that it, you have to
look at, you know, what
that core material is, what
that hack is, what the
tools are, what the knowledge
is and the kind of
personality that people have got.
You know, I was, I
was I've written and I've,
I've written an article about
open organizations. That's going to
be going up on a,
on a website soon. And
I interviewed Jim Whitehurst is
the CEO of a red
hat. And he recently wrote
a, wrote a book about
open organizations. He came from
Delta airlines to red hat.
And one of the points
that he made was he
really only understood the open
source approach and the collaborative
approach effectively because he came
out of that world into
that world. And I feel
like going from that open
source world into a completely
different world has helped me
to understand that as well
and how unique the technology
mindset is. Like, I think
we take for granted when
we're, we, you know, you
and I've both been working
in technology for a long
time. I think we take
for granted the, the, the,
the personality traits that are
present in technology people and
how pragmatic and are practical.
They are that aren't necessarily
present Now, not trying to
be too functional, but when
I think of community, I
have trouble separating it from
the concept of collaboration. And
that inevitably leads me towards
tools. And when I think
about collaborating and open source,
I always feel like an
advancement in tooling comes up
and then collaboration increases. So
the advent of kids, you
know, I mean, IRC for
a while was like, where
it all happened, you know,
then get comes along and
then get, you know, get
hub issues, you know? Yeah.
Well, while some communities are
in the GitHub issues, kind
of Slack level of collaboration,
other various successful communities, if
it seems like the only
thing that they do is
send email and they have
a mailing list and it's
extremely low fidelity with ridiculous
quoting rules. And it's like
a whole other language. Where
does the X prize community
collaborate? Where does this collaboration
and community occur? Well, this
was one of the first
interesting questions was, you know,
when I joined the X
prize foundation, the first thing
I did was just to
learn about who's involved right
now. And, you know, when
I was at canonical, the,
the general demographic of people
was technology people. It's, it's
people who are interested in
it is people who are
interested in the boon too.
And even people outside of
like software developers, you know,
BizDev people, for example, with
technology, business, people in the
X prize community. When I
joined in the X prize
community at the time, you
know, it was a real
interesting mix of business people,
conference organizers, entrepreneurs, scientists, VCs,
or massive mix of people.
And I wanted to identify,
okay, I don't want to
build like a ton of
small communities. I want to
bring these people together in
a way that's unified for
all of them as best
I can. So the first
thing I put in place
was the forum of forum
that X prize dog, cause
that's a relatively straightforward way
in which people can engage.
And my, my feeling was
let's start simple and see
what shakes out. So the
first step was I looked
at the expos community as
essentially a barren Island with
kind of natives on it
and what I need to
put in place, the tools
or the, you know, the
roads and the buildings and
the infrastructure. So a lot
of that was building a
website, get in the form
in place, getting a Wiki
in place, having monthly Hangouts,
where we can communicate out
things that are going on,
infusing community into the price
design, the price development process,
like nothing existed in that,
in that sense, before I
joined. And then what happened
was natural kind of next
steps panned out of that.
So we've seen, for example,
teams forming open teams that
are forming to compete in
these prizes where they're keeping
all the material on, get
hub, we've organized local user
groups all over the world,
collects price, think tanks, where
we have teams in groups,
in Shanghai, in Hyderabad and
Bangalore and London and Zurich
and various other places. So
my view was frankly, suck
it and see is like
join and see what we
already had. And then, and
then it would naturally the
most logical areas of focus
would pan out of that.
And also, you know, the
other, the other challenge here
was, was bringing community to
a organization that is pretty
unfamiliar with how communities work.
So Peter Diamandis understands community
at the, at the, at
the wider level, but you
know, my colleagues at the
X prize foundation, this was
completely new to them. You
know, I come from a
company where it was born
in the brain of, of
community. It understood the importance
of community and why that
plays a role in open
source. Whereas for the X
prize foundation, the first questions
I had was why you
here, I'm like, what's the
point of this? And, you
know, so it was interesting
kind of translating the point
of all of this stuff
into a language, for people
who are completely unfamiliar with
it, and then building kind
of engagement and building support
for that internally. So that,
like I said, this is
one of the reasons why
the last year, I think,
has been a really interesting
year because I was consulting
with companies previously, who weren't
particularly familiar with the community,
but you play a different
role as a consultant that
you need to do when
then when you come in
on the ground. So, So
what can the software engineer
or developer or person who's
listening to this podcast do
when they can't presumably take
three years of their life
off and assemble a team
and go off into an
unknown space. If they want
to do this kind of
work, do they find people
who are working on X
prize and join those companies?
Do they other smaller enterprises
that an individual or a
person can do in their
garage? The things that we're
exploring right now. So I've
broken these initial ideas into,
into a few different phases.
So phase one was getting
all the infrastructure in place,
which we're pretty much there.
Now, phase two was getting
these local think tank groups
all over the world, set
up, which you know, which
is where people give presentations
about three D printing about
drones, about artificial intelligence, that
kind of stuff. But then
also those groups are encouraged
to kind of get together
and to ideate and to
brainstorm ways in which they
can collaborate and work together.
So, one thing I'd recommend
is, is, is software people
go to a think tank,
or if there isn't a
thing, technically you set one
up, but the second area
is, Oh, sorry. The, the
third area, rather that we're
at the beginning of thinking
about, and I'd love to
get people's views on this
is I'm of the view
that, you know, X prize
is a big, hairy, audacious
incentive competitions. And imagine that
you've got all these big
problems in the world floating
above us, around energy, around
water, around ocean health, around
education X prize understands those
problems pretty well and can
pick off some elements of
those problems. And then at
the bottom underneath that massive
problems are people who can
do stuff. They're software developers,
hardware, engineers, translators, designers, scientists,
all of those different people.
So X prize basically translate
some of those problems into
a form that some of
those people can connect with.
And those are the X
prize competitions. My personal philosophy
is that there are still
loads of major challenges in
the world that people would
not be able to participate
in that are smaller pieces
that I believe that people
would like to play a
role in. So this could
be making better software for
emergency responders to communicate with
each other on cell phones.
It could be building crisis
management systems where people can
quickly find relatives and food
and things like that. It
could be big data. I
just recently joined a board
for the, the open cloud
consortium, which is creating an
open data commons for doing
cancer research. And Alzheimer's research.
You know, this is the
kind of thing that I
think technology people would be,
would love to play a
role in making the world
a better place that isn't
an X prize. So what
I'm looking at doing right
now is exploring ways in
which we can construct an
environment where people can do
precisely that. So I'd love
to get people's input on
the forum at particularly, you
know, what around what would
be attractive to somebody. Cause
again, it's everything in my
mind starts to the hack
with that world. So how
do we, what's the first
hack in solving these bigger
problems? And then how do
we make that hack apply
to those bigger problems in
a, in a practical sense,
Ideally, and this is selfish,
but because I'm a diabetic
and I work on some
open source projects around diabetes,
one of the, the, if
there were an, a diabetes
X prize, it would be
closing the loop and making
a software based controlled artificial
pancreas. Right. Which is kind
of currently being done. And
there's three or four people
who've hacked one together in
their garage, but like formalizing
that in a way that
dealt with all of the
issues around patient privacy and
security and all those kinds
of things. Yeah. It would
be interesting to have X
prizes that were somehow coordinated
or managed or supported by
the X prize community, but
maybe it didn't just have
a giant person the other
side. Well, yeah, it's interesting.
You say that there was
no money on the other
end. Yeah. There's, there's a,
a S a spinoff of
the X prize has been
this as there's been this
site called hero X, which
is essentially Kickstarter for running
incentive competitions. So, you know,
you could have a competition
that's 500 bucks, so it
could be 500,000 bucks. So
it could conceivably be something
else. But the idea, one
of the things that we're
working with right now with,
with the think tanks is
encouraging local groups to kind
of go through an ideation
process that results in an,
in a hero X competition.
So, and then you could
potentially do some fundraising to
fund that at a smaller
level. So right now with
Kickstarter people get up and
they say, we want to
raise, you know, $50,000 to
make our product happen. You
could conceivably have a really
crisp competition that solves a
particular problem, and then go
and get people to fund
that they can contribute towards
the price purse. So this
is another interesting kind of
slant on the model. And
that frankly is important for
scaling up the incentive competition
model. Cause X prize is
so big. There's only so
many can run at a
time. So I think you
need that, that scalable crowdsource
model for it to really
have that way. It'd be
interesting to see if you
could run a bunch of,
could you, like you could
run one, what is the
difference between running $1 million X
prize? And, you know, I
don't know, 10, a hundred
thousand dollar ones. Well, that's
it, you know, there's one
of the things I've been
reading into recently. I don't
know if you're, if you've
read into this is behavioral
economics and you know, there's
this, there's this interesting. There's
a, there's a guy called
Rory Sutherland. Who's this he's,
he actually works in advertising
and he, he's a tremendous
Ted speaker. I'd encourage your,
your listeners to go and
check them out. Rory Sutherland.
And he basically taught, you
know, behavioral economics is essentially
the premise that people make
irrational decisions. And that, you
know, economics is you have
a very rational set of,
of, of ways in which
the economy works. And then
economics is, you know, is
panned out of those, those
rational presumptions. And we all
know that those rational presumptions
are completely fictitious. So it's
basically this applied to social
behavior. And one of the
premises that Rory Sutherland talks
about is that a guy
wrote this book called nudge.
Is that the way in
which we make big things
happen is not necessarily through
one massive thing. It's through
lots of small nudges. So,
you know, we see this
in governments where a government
will try to solve a
problem. And what they'll do
is they'll announce the $2 billion
initiative to solve this particular
problem. Whereas in reality, when
you empower lots of people
to do lots of little
paper cut nudges, that's how
we tick off these problems.
And this is how crowd
funding, crowdsourcing and community development
has had an impact in
the world is, you know,
Wikipedia is one of the
finest example of the nudge
model is that of people
have written little bits of
Wikipedia. Now it's becoming a
tremendously valuable aggregate. So I
believe that there is a
similar kind of approach that
can be applied to solving
our major challenges in the
world through X prize. So
X prize competitions are the
big, the big campaigns, but
then we need to empower
lots of people to make
those small lunches. Very cool.
Well, thanks for chatting with
me today. Yeah, no, I
appreciate you having me on.
So folks can go up
and look certainly@thenewforumsatcommunitydotexforumsthatxprizedotorgiscommunitydotxprize.org coming soon,
it is coming at the
end of this month, that's
going to be launching, but
you can find everything right
now at forum dot X
prize dog. And then obviously
you can just go to
the main website X prize
to Okta to find out
about the wider organization. So,
and certainly also I do
very much recommend the art
of community, your book. It's
still well, it's certainly still
relevant today. I hope so.
I hope so, but I'm
looking forward to writing the
next one and I appreciate
it. Thank you. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.